>> Ifill: BOSTON REMEMBERS THE
LIVES LOST, AND THOSE STILL
HEALING, ONE YEAR AFTER TWIN
BOMBS STRUCK AT THE MARATHON'S
FINISH LINE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD TONIGHT, THE FIRST
SIGN OF A MILITARES
KIEV, AGAINST MOUNTING UNREST IN
UKRAINE'S EASTERN REGIONS.
IT SAYS IT'S RECAPTURED AN
AIRPORT FROM PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS.
>> Ifill: PLUS, THE SECOND OF
JEFFREY BROWN'S REPORTS FROM THE
ASIAN NATION OF MYANMAR.
TONIGHT, THE STRUGGLE TO
PRESERVE IT'S GRAND ARCHITECTURE
AND CULTURAL HISTORY, IN THE
FACE OF RAPID CHANGE.
>> THE CITY ONCE CALLED RANGOON
IS OFTEN SAID TO BE FROZEN IN
TIME.
THAT'S CHANGING AND QUICKLY.
THE KEY QUESTION IS HOW TO
PRESERVE SOMETHING OF THE PAST
WHILE MOVING INTO A 21s
21st CENTURY FUTURE.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE CITY OF BOSTON
PAUSED ON THIS FIRST ANNIVERSARY
OF THE BOMBINGS THAT ERUPTED AT
THE FINISH LINE OF THE BOSTON
MARATHON.
SURVIVORS, PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND
THE GENERAL PUBLIC HONORED THE
DEAD AND OFFERED HOPE FOR THE
FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: THE DAY BEGAN WITH
A QUIET WREATH-LAYING AT THE
SITE OF THE TWO BLASTS ON
BOYLSTON STREET.
THE BROTHER AND SISTER OF THE
YOUNGEST VICTIM, 8-YEAR-OLD
MARTIN RICHARD, LAID ONE OF THE
WREATHS.
A YEAR AGO, THE SCENE WAS VERY
DIFFERENT, AS RUNNERS MADE THEIR
WAY TO THE FINISH LINE, THE TWO
PRESSURE COOKER BOMBS EXPLODED
WITHIN MOMENTS OF EACH OTHER.
THREE PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND
MORE THAN 260 OTHERS INJURED.
MANY LOST LIMBS.
>> I RUN OVER THERE AND THERE
ARE BODY PARTS, PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
BLOWN APART.
THE WINDOWS ALL BLOWN OUT.
>> Woodruff: A MANHUNT BEGAN
IMMEDIATELY FOR THE SUSPECTS,
IDENTIFIED AS TWOTH
DZHOKHAR AND TAMERLAN TSARNAEV.
THE CITY WAS EFFECTIVELY LOCKED
DOWN, AND TAMERLAN TSARNAEV DIED
IN A SHOOTOUT WITH POLICE.
THE YOUNGER BROTHER, DZHOKHAR,
WAS EVENTUALLY FOUND HIDING
INSIDE A BOAT IN CK
HE PLEADED NOT GUILTY TO MORE
THD IS
AWAITING TRIAL.
TODAY, SURVIVORS, FAMILIES AND
MEDICAL STAFF JOINED WITH
HUNDREDS OF OTHERS, INCLUDING
THOMAS MENINO, WHO WAS BOSTON'S
MAYOR A YEAR AGO.
>> IT'S AN HONOR TO BE ABLE TO
THANK AND PRAISE THE FIRST
RESPONDERS WHO CARRIED SOME OF
YOU TO SAFETY.
EASE THE PAIN JUST A LITTLE MORE
TO SHAKE THE HANDS OF THE
DOCTORS AND  NURSES WHO STOPPED
THE BLEEDING, CLOSED YOUR
WOUNDS, OR MEND YOU LEGS.
WHO SAVED YOUR LIVES SO YOU ARE
HERE WITH US.
IN THIS MOMENT MAKING THE CITY
AND WORLD A BETTER PLACE.
>> Woodruff: PATRICK DOWNES WAS
AMONG THOSE WHO LOST A LEG IN
THE ATTACK, AND SO DID HIS WIFE.
>> WE WOULD NEVER WISH THE
DEVASTATION AND PAIN WE HAVE
EXPERIENCED ON ANY OF YOU.
HOWEVER, WE DO WISH THAT ALL OF
YOU FEEL AT SOME POINT YOUR
LIVES FEEL AS LOVED AS WE HAVE
FELT OVER THIS LAST YEAR.
IT HAS BEEN THE MOST HUMBLING
EXPERIENCE OF OUR LIVE
WE HOPE YOU FEEL ALL THE EMOTION
WE FEEL WHEN WE SAY THANK YOU.
TO OUR FELLOW SURVIVOR COMMUNITY
WHAT WOULD WE DO WITHOUT EACH
OTHER?
WE SHOULD'VE NEVER ME THIS WAY
BUT WE ARE SO GRATEFUL FOR EACH
OTHER.
>> Woodruff: THE THEME OF
"BOSTON STRONG" RAN THROUGH THE
REMARKS OF EACH SPEAKER,
INCLUDING VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN.
>> NEXT MONDAY, ON PATRIOTS DAY,
WHEN I'M TOLD UP TO 36,000
PEOPLE LINE UP TO START THE
MARATHON YOU WILL SEND A
RESOUNDING MESSAGE AROUND THE
WORLD, NOT JUST THE REST OF THE
WORLD BUT TO THE TERRORISTS,
THAT WE WILL NEVER YIELD, WE
WILL NEVER COWER.
AMERICA WILL NEVER, EVER, EVER
STAND DOWN WE ARE BOSTON, WE ARE
AMERICA, WE RESPOND, WE ENDURE
AND WE OWN THE FINISH LINE.
>> Woodruff: AND THEN, UNDER
RAINY SKIES, THE CROWD MOVED
OUTSIDE TO THE MARATHON'S FINISF
SILENCE AT THE PRECISE MOMENT
THE BOMBS EXPLODED.
>> Woodruff: THE MAN SUSPECTED
OF SHOOTING THREE PEOPLE TO
DEATH AT JEWISH COMMUNITY SITES
OUTSIDE KANSAS CITY WAS
OFFICIALLY CHARGED TODAY.
FRAZIER GLENN CROSS, A WHITE
SUPREMACIST, HAD HIS FIRST COURT
HEARING.
HE FACES ONE COUNT OF CAPITAL
MURDER, WHICH CARRIES A POSSIBLE
DEATH SENTENCE, AND ONE COUNT OF
PREMEDITATED MURDER.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY STEVE HOWE.
>> THE OPTIONS FOR THE SENTENCE
ARE LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE OR, IF
WE CHOOSE, WE FILE A NOTICE OF
REQUESTING THE DEATH PENALTY.
THAT IS SOMETHING WE DON'T HAVE
TO FILE WHEN WE FILE THE
CHARGES.
THAT IS A, I DON'T TAKE THAT
DECISION LIGHTLY AND THAT
DECISION WILL BE MADE AFTER WE
GET ALL THE FACTS AND EVIDENCE
IN THE CASE 'CAUSE WE WANT TO
MAKE AN INFORMED DECISION BEFORE
THAT IS DONE.
>> Woodruff: WHILE THE STATE
MURDER CASE PROCEEDS, FEDERAL
PROSECUTORS ARE WORKING ON
BRINGING "HATE CRIME" CHARGES
AGAINST CROSS.
IN NIGERIA, MORE THAN 100 FEMALE
STUDENTS WERE ABDUCTED FROM A
BOARDING SCHOOL.
IT HAPPENED OVERNIGHT, IN BORNO
STATE.
OFFICIALS BLAMED THE ISLAMIST
MILITANT GROUP "BOKO HARAM."
THE ABDUCTIONS CAME HOURS AFTER
MILITANTS BOMBED A BUS STATION
IN THE COUNTRY'S CAPITAL, ABUJA.
THE DEATH TOLL ROSE TO 75 TODAY,
WITH 141 WOUNDED.
AN EBOLA OUTBREAK IN GUINEA AND
LIBERIA IS NOW LINKED TO MORE
THAN 120 DEATHS.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
CONFIRMED THE NEW TOTAL TODAY,
OUT OF 200 SUSPECTED OR
CONFIRMED CASES.
THERE IS NO CURE FOR THE DEADLY
VIRUS, AND OFFICIALS HAVE WARNED
THE OUTBREAK COULD LAST FOR
MONTHS.
A U.S. NAVY ROBOTIC SUBMARINE
HAS BEGUN IT'S SECOND DIVE IN
THE INDIAN OCEAN, IN SEARCH OF
THE MISSING MALAYSIAN AIRLINES
PLANE.
YESTERDAY, THE BLUEFIN 21 CUT
SHORT IT'S FIRST ATTEMPT
YESTERDAY BECAUSE THE WATER
WAS DEEPER THAN 15,000 FEET, THE
DEEPEST IT CAN GO.
OPERATORS ADJUSTED THE SEARCH
AREA FOR THE SECOND DIVE.
DATA FROM THAT INITIAL MISSION
SHOWED NO SIGN OF THE PLANE.
THIS WAS THE DAY OF THE DINOSAUR
IN WASHINGTON.
THE SMITHSONIAN'S MUSEUM OF
NATURAL HISTORY TOOK DELIVERY OF
A NEARLY COMPLETE TYRANNOSAURUS
REX.
ITS FOSSILIZED BONES TRAVELED
MORE THAN 2,000 MILES, IN 16
CRATES, FROM MONTANA, WHERE IT'S
BEEN DISPLAYED SINCE BEING
DISCOVERED IN 1988.
THE RE-ASSEMBLY WILL TAKE FIVE
YEARS.
>> THE T-REX ITSELF, ONCE WE
UNPACK IT, WILL BE IN HALL 13,
KNOWN AS THE REX ROOM, JUST OFF
THE ROTUNDA, AND IN THAT SPACE,
WE'LL BE MAKING A THREE-
DIMENSIONAL SCAN AND CREATING A
DIGITAL T-REX, WHICH WILL AID US
IN THE THREE-DIMENSIONAL
RECONSTRUCTION AND MOUNTING OF
THE ACTUAL SKELETON IN THE HALL
IN 2019.
>> Woodruff: THE DINOSAUR WILL
BE PART OF A $48 MILLION GALLERY
DEVOTED TO THE HISTORY OF LIFE
ON EARTH.
WALL STREET MANAGED MODEST GAINS
TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
ROSE 89 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,262.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 11 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,034.
AND THE S-AND-P ADDED 12 TO
FINISH NEAR 1,843.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
UKRAINIAN FORCES PUSH BACK
AGAINST PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS;
THE BATTLE TO SLOW THE WORST
EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE;
MYANMAR'S STRUGGLE TO PRESERVE
ITS CULTURAL HERITAGE;
ONE PULITZER PRIZE WINNER'S
SOBERING LOOK AT LIFE ON FOOD
STAMPS;
AN OREGON COMMUNITY THAT PAIRS
SENIORS WITH FOSTER KIDS;
AND A PERSONAL TAKE ON HEALING
AFTER THE BOSTON BOMBINGS.
>> Ifill: UKRAINE'S MILITARY
SAID IT'S FORCES CLASHED WITH 30
ARMED MEMBERS OF A PRO-RUSSIAN
MILITIA TODAY, AND REGAINED
CONTROL OF A SMALL AIRPORT.
THE ACTION HAPPENED AFTER THE
COUNTRY'S ACTING PRESIDENT
ANNOUNCED AN "ANTI-TERRORIST
OPERATION" TO TAKE BACK
BUILDINGS HELD BY SEPARATISTS IN
AT LEAST NINE CITIES IN EASTERN
UKRAINE.
LINDSEY HILSUM OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS TONIGHT
ON THE UPHILL BATTLE UKRAINIAN
TROOPS ARE FACING AGAINST THEIR
OWN COUNTRYMEN.
>> Reporter: COMING INTO LAND,
INFORCEMENTS FOR A UNIT OF
UKRAINAIN TROOPS.
THEY'RE STOPPED ON THE MAIN ROAD
JUST NORTH OF THE TOWNS WHERE
SEPARATISTS HAVE TAKEN DOWN THE
YELLOW AND BLUE UKRAINIAN COLORS
AND SUBSTITUTED THE RUSSIAN
FLAG.
THEY UNLOADED AMMUNITION BOXES
AND OTHER SUPPLIES.
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT SAYS
THEIR ANTI-TERROR OPERATION HAS
NOW STARTED.
THEIR COMMANDER WAS CLEAR THAT
THEY SEE RUSSIA AS THE ENEMY.
>> ( translated ): THIS IS
HAPPENING BECAUSE OF THE
UNPRECEDENTED INTERVENTION BY A
NEIGHBORING COUNTRY ON SOVEREIGN
UKRAINIAN TERRITORY.
NOTE THAT THIS AGGRESSION IS
MADE IN THE MOST BASE WAY.
LET'S NOT MINCE WORDS: IT'S A
CRIMINAL ACT.
>> Reporter: THE SOLDIERS WERE
CLEAR: THEY DON'T WANT THE CIVIL
WAR THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT HAS
PREDICTED, UKRAINIANS SHOULD NOT
FIGHT EACH OTHER.
OUR ENEMY.
>> THE UKRAINIAN PEOPLE IS NOT
>> Reporter: WHAT ABOUT THE
OUR ENEMY.
RUSSIANS?
>> Reporter: WHAT ABOUT THE
>> MAYBE.
RUSSIANS?
BUT RUSSIAN MILITARY.
>> MAYBE.
RUSSIAN PEOPLE, NO.
BUT RUSSIAN MILITARY.
SET UP CAMP HERE ELF DAYS
RUSSIAN PEOPLE, NO.
EARLIER.
SET UP CAMP HERE ELF DAYS
YOU HAVE NOTHING TO FEAR, SAID
EARLIER.
THE UKRAINIAN SOLDIER.
YOU HAVE NOTHING TO FEAR, SAID
WE'RE SCARED OF YOU, THEY
THE UKRAINIAN SOLDIER.
REPLIED, AND WE WANT YOU TO
WE'RE SCARED OF YOU, THEY
LEAVE OR COME ON TO THE SIDE OF
REPLIED, AND WE WANT YOU TO
THE PEOPLE.
LEAVE OR COME ON TO THE SIDE OF
THE PEOPLE HERE ARE FIGHTING
THE PEOPLE.
WITH THE SEPARATISTS, THOSE WHO
THE PEOPLE HERE ARE FIGHTING
PREFER MOSCOW, THEY WANT THE
WITH THE SEPARATISTS, THOSE WHO
SOLDIERS TO REJECT ORDERS FROM
PREFER MOSCOW, THEY WANT THE
THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV.
SOLDIERS TO REJECT ORDERS FROM
BUT YOU LIVE IN UKRAINE AND THIS
THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV.
IS THE UKRAINIAN ARMY.THEY HAVEE
BUT YOU LIVE IN UKRAINE AND THIS
DON'T THEY?
IS THE UKRAINIAN ARMY.THEY HAVEE
>> THEY DON'T HAVE DOCUMENTATION
DON'T THEY?
TO STAY HERE AND WE DON'T
>> THEY DON'T HAVE DOCUMENTATION
RECOGNIZE THIS GOVERNMENT WHO
TO STAY HERE AND WE DON'T
SENT THEM HERE.
RECOGNIZE THIS GOVERNMENT WHO
WE DIDN'T ELECT THEM AND WE
SENT THEM HERE.
DON'T SUPPORT THEIR DECISIONS.
WE DIDN'T ELECT THEM AND WE
>> Reporter: WHETHER THEY LIKE
DON'T SUPPORT THEIR DECISIONS.
IT OR NOT, UKRAINIAN SOLDIERS
>> Reporter: WHETHER THEY LIKE
ARE NOW BEING DRAWN INTO
IT OR NOT, UKRAINIAN SOLDIERS
CONFLICT WITH UKRAINIAN
ARE NOW BEING DRAWN INTO
CITIZENS, THE VERY PEOPLE THEY
CONFLICT WITH UKRAINIAN
WERE ALWAYS TASKED TO PROTECT.
CITIZENS, THE VERY PEOPLE THEY
>> Ifill: LINDSEY HILSUM IS IN
WERE ALWAYS TASKED TO PROTECT.
IZYUM, IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
>> Ifill: LINDSEY HILSUM IS IN
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT TIME AGO.
IZYUM, IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
LINDSEY, I'M WATCHING YOUR
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT TIME AGO.
REPORT.
LINDSEY, I'M WATCHING YOUR
SEEMS LIKE THINGS ARE TERRIBLY
REPORT.
TENSE ON THE GROUND.
SEEMS LIKE THINGS ARE TERRIBLY
HOW TENSE ARE THEY?
TENSE ON THE GROUND.
>> Reporter: IT'S EXTREMELY
HOW TENSE ARE THEY?
TENSE TODAY BECAUSE THIS IS THE
>> Reporter: IT'S EXTREMELY
DAY THAT THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY
TENSE TODAY BECAUSE THIS IS THE
HAS LAUNCHED WHAT IT'S CALLING
DAY THAT THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY
IT'S SPECIAL OPERATION AGAINST
HAS LAUNCHED WHAT IT'S CALLING
THE PRO RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS WHO
IT'S SPECIAL OPERATION AGAINST
ARE OCCUPYING BUILDINGS IN UP TO
THE PRO RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS WHO
TEN TOWNS ACROSS EASTERN
ARE OCCUPYING BUILDINGS IN UP TO
UKRAINE.
TEN TOWNS ACROSS EASTERN
TODAY, THEY BROUGHT THEIR
UKRAINE.
ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS AND
TODAY, THEY BROUGHT THEIR
OTHER EQUIPMENT DOWN SOUTH, AND
ARMORED PERSONNEL CARRIERS AND
THEN THEY WENT INTO A PLACE
OTHER EQUIPMENT DOWN SOUTH, AND
CALLED KRAMATORSK.
THEN THEY WENT INTO A PLACE
THEY WENT IN HELICOPTERS, LANDED
CALLED KRAMATORSK.
AT THE AIRFIELD AND SEIZED THE
THEY WENT IN HELICOPTERS, LANDED
AIRFIELD WHICH HAD BEEN
AT THE AIRFIELD AND SEIZED THE
CONTROLLED BY THE PRO-RUSSIAN
AIRFIELD WHICH HAD BEEN
SEPARATISTS.
CONTROLLED BY THE PRO-RUSSIAN
IT'S NOT CLEAR AT THE MOMENT IF
SEPARATISTS.
THERE WERE CASUALTIES AND IF SO
IT'S NOT CLEAR AT THE MOMENT IF
HOW MANY.
THERE WERE CASUALTIES AND IF SO
THE RUSSIAN MEDIA IS SAYING
HOW MANY.
THERE WERE PEOPLE KILLED BUT
THE RUSSIAN MEDIA IS SAYING
THAT IS NOT CONFIRMED.
THERE WERE PEOPLE KILLED BUT
THIS IS VERY MUCH A PROPAGANDA
THAT IS NOT CONFIRMED.
WAR AT THE MOMENT, SO ONE HAS TO
THIS IS VERY MUCH A PROPAGANDA
BE VERY CAREFUL.
WAR AT THE MOMENT, SO ONE HAS TO
WHAT WE DO KNOW IS SOME OF THE
BE VERY CAREFUL.
LOCAL PEOPLE WERE UNHAPPY ABOUT
WHAT WE DO KNOW IS SOME OF THE
THE UKRAINIAN TROOPS RETAKING
LOCAL PEOPLE WERE UNHAPPY ABOUT
THE AIRFIELD, THEY STARTED
THE UKRAINIAN TROOPS RETAKING
PROTESTING AND CONFRONTING THEM
THE AIRFIELD, THEY STARTED
AND THE UKRAINIAN TROOPS,
PROTESTING AND CONFRONTING THEM
ACCORDING TO WITNESSES, FIRED
AND THE UKRAINIAN TROOPS,
INTO THE AIR, POSSIBLY WITH
ACCORDING TO WITNESSES, FIRED
AUTOMATIC WEAPONS.
INTO THE AIR, POSSIBLY WITH
SO THIS IS A VERY TENSE
AUTOMATIC WEAPONS.
SITUATION AT THE MOMENT AND ALSO
SO THIS IS A VERY TENSE
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.
SITUATION AT THE MOMENT AND ALSO
PRESIDENT PUTIN AND ALSO WILLIAM
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.
HAGUE BOTH TALKED ABOUT UKRAINE
PRESIDENT PUTIN AND ALSO WILLIAM
BEING ON THE BRINK OF A CIVIL
HAGUE BOTH TALKED ABOUT UKRAINE
WAR.
BEING ON THE BRINK OF A CIVIL
IT'S A VERY DANGEROUS MOMENT.
WAR.
>> Ifill: IT DOES SOUND LIKE
IT'S A VERY DANGEROUS MOMENT.
THAT.
>> Ifill: IT DOES SOUND LIKE
BUT IS THERE A WAY TO GAUGE HOW
THAT.
GENUINE PRO-RUSSIAN SENTIMENT IS
BUT IS THERE A WAY TO GAUGE HOW
ON THE GROUND THAT YOU'VE SEEN?
GENUINE PRO-RUSSIAN SENTIMENT IS
>> Reporter: I THINK THERE IS
ON THE GROUND THAT YOU'VE SEEN?
A VERY GENUINE PRO-RUSSIAN
>> Reporter: I THINK THERE IS
SENTIMENT ON THE GROUND HERE.
A VERY GENUINE PRO-RUSSIAN
YOU'VE TALKED TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
SENTIMENT ON THE GROUND HERE.
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF DAYS AND
YOU'VE TALKED TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
THEY THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV IS
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF DAYS AND
ILLEGITIMATE, AS THEY PUT IT,
THEY THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV IS
BECAUSE IT DID TAKE POWER AFTER
ILLEGITIMATE, AS THEY PUT IT,
THE PREVIOUS PRESIDENT
BECAUSE IT DID TAKE POWER AFTER
YANUKOVICH FLED AND HAS NOT BEEN
THE PREVIOUS PRESIDENT
ELECTED.
YANUKOVICH FLED AND HAS NOT BEEN
THERE ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
ELECTED.
ELECTIONS IN MAY.
THERE ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
WE'LL SEE IF THAT'S POSSIBLE OR
ELECTIONS IN MAY.
NOT.
WE'LL SEE IF THAT'S POSSIBLE OR
MANY OF THE PEOPLE HERE, THEY
NOT.
WATCH RUSSIAN TELEVISION AND
MANY OF THE PEOPLE HERE, THEY
BELIEVE PRETTY MUCH EVERYTHING
WATCH RUSSIAN TELEVISION AND
THAT COMES OUT OF MOSCOW AND
BELIEVE PRETTY MUCH EVERYTHING
WHAT THE PROPAGANDA FROM THERE
THAT COMES OUT OF MOSCOW AND
HAS BEEN SAYING IS THAT THE
WHAT THE PROPAGANDA FROM THERE
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV IS FASCIST,
HAS BEEN SAYING IS THAT THE
IT'S SORT OF MARXIST AND SO ON.
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV IS FASCIST,
NOW, THE PROPAGANDA IS THERE ON
IT'S SORT OF MARXIST AND SO ON.
THE OTHER SIDE AS WELL, FROM THE
NOW, THE PROPAGANDA IS THERE ON
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV AND FROM
THE OTHER SIDE AS WELL, FROM THE
UKRAINIAN SOURCES, TOO.
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV AND FROM
BUT I THINK THAT WHAT YOU SEE
UKRAINIAN SOURCES, TOO.
HERE IS A PEOPLE WHO VERY MUCH
BUT I THINK THAT WHAT YOU SEE
BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE PUT DOWN,
HERE IS A PEOPLE WHO VERY MUCH
THEY ARE DISMISSED BY THE
BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE PUT DOWN,
AUTHORITIES IN KIEV, THAT THIS
THEY ARE DISMISSED BY THE
PART OF THE COUNTRY HAS ALL THE
AUTHORITIES IN KIEV, THAT THIS
WEALTH.
PART OF THE COUNTRY HAS ALL THE
YOU SEE A LOT OF POWER STATIONS
WEALTH.
AND MINES HERE.
YOU SEE A LOT OF POWER STATIONS
IT IS A MAIN STAY OF THE
AND MINES HERE.
UKRAINIAN ECONOMY.
IT IS A MAIN STAY OF THE
THEY FEEL THEY GET THEIR
UKRAINIAN ECONOMY.
RECOGNITION FOR THAT AND THEY
THEY FEEL THEY GET THEIR
ARE LOOKED DOWN ON AND THEY
RECOGNITION FOR THAT AND THEY
ABSOLUTELY DON'T TRUST THE NEW
ARE LOOKED DOWN ON AND THEY
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV.
ABSOLUTELY DON'T TRUST THE NEW
SO THERE IS A LOT OF PRO-RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV.
SENTIMENT HERE ON THE GROUND.
SO THERE IS A LOT OF PRO-RUSSIAN
>> Ifill: I WAS STRUCK BY THE
SENTIMENT HERE ON THE GROUND.
UKRAINIAN SOLDIER YOU SPOKE TO
>> Ifill: I WAS STRUCK BY THE
IN YOUR PIECE WHO SAID HE MAKES
UKRAINIAN SOLDIER YOU SPOKE TO
A DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE
IN YOUR PIECE WHO SAID HE MAKES
RUSSIAN MILITARY AND THE RUSSIAN
A DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE
PEOPLE.
RUSSIAN MILITARY AND THE RUSSIAN
IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE ARE A LOT
PEOPLE.
OF DIVIDE LOYALTIES.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE ARE A LOT
>> Reporter: WELL, I THINK
OF DIVIDE LOYALTIES.
THERE ARE BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO
>> Reporter: WELL, I THINK
REMEMBER THAT UKRAINE AND RUSSIA
THERE ARE BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO
WERE BOTH PART OF THE SOVIET
REMEMBER THAT UKRAINE AND RUSSIA
UNION UNTIL 1991, AND THERE ARE
WERE BOTH PART OF THE SOVIET
A LOT OF TIES HERE, LINKS WHICH
UNION UNTIL 1991, AND THERE ARE
GO BACK MANY M YEARS AND, ALSO,
A LOT OF TIES HERE, LINKS WHICH
WORLD WAR II, I MEAN WE MAY
GO BACK MANY M YEARS AND, ALSO,
THINK THIS IS MANY DECADES AGO,
WORLD WAR II, I MEAN WE MAY
BUT FOR HERE IT IS VERY REAL.
THINK THIS IS MANY DECADES AGO,
WHERE I'M STANDING NOW WAS A
BUT FOR HERE IT IS VERY REAL.
MAJOR BATTLEFIELD DURING WORLD
WHERE I'M STANDING NOW WAS A
WAR II, MANY PEOPLE FIGHTING FOR
MAJOR BATTLEFIELD DURING WORLD
THE SOVIET ARMY WERE KILLED
WAR II, MANY PEOPLE FIGHTING FOR
HERE.
THE SOVIET ARMY WERE KILLED
SO ALL THOSE MEMORIES ARE THERE,
HERE.
AND THOSE MEMORIES ARE SHARED
SO ALL THOSE MEMORIES ARE THERE,
BETWEEN UKRAINE AND RUSSIA.
AND THOSE MEMORIES ARE SHARED
BUT IN THE WEST OF THE COUNTRY,
BETWEEN UKRAINE AND RUSSIA.
PEOPLE IDENTIFY FAR MORE WITH
BUT IN THE WEST OF THE COUNTRY,
EUROPE AND POLAND, SO THERE'S A
PEOPLE IDENTIFY FAR MORE WITH
LOT OF DIVISION WITHIN UKRAINE.
EUROPE AND POLAND, SO THERE'S A
BUT I THINK FOR THE UKRAINIAN
LOT OF DIVISION WITHIN UKRAINE.
SOLDIERS, THIS IS REALLY A
BUT I THINK FOR THE UKRAINIAN
TERRIBLE THING.
SOLDIERS, THIS IS REALLY A
I MEAN, WHAT THEY BELIEVE
TERRIBLE THING.
THEY'RE HERE TO DO IS LIKE ANY
I MEAN, WHAT THEY BELIEVE
ARMY, PROTECT THE PEOPLE OF
THEY'RE HERE TO DO IS LIKE ANY
THEIR COUNTRY.
ARMY, PROTECT THE PEOPLE OF
TO THEM, THAT MEANS UKRAINIANS.
THEIR COUNTRY.
BUT WHAT THEY'RE FINDING AS THEY
TO THEM, THAT MEANS UKRAINIANS.
COME INTO THIS AREA THAT MANY
BUT WHAT THEY'RE FINDING AS THEY
UKRAINIAN CITIZENS NO LONGER
COME INTO THIS AREA THAT MANY
FEEL THAT LOYALTY TO KIEV ARE
UKRAINIAN CITIZENS NO LONGER
LOOKING TOWARDS MOSCOW, SO THEY
FEEL THAT LOYALTY TO KIEV ARE
ARE BEING FORCED INTO CONFLICT
LOOKING TOWARDS MOSCOW, SO THEY
WITH THEIR OWN CITIZENS AND
ARE BEING FORCED INTO CONFLICT
THAT'S AN EXTREMELY DIFFICULT
WITH THEIR OWN CITIZENS AND
THING.
THAT'S AN EXTREMELY DIFFICULT
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED
THING.
EARLIER WE ARE IN THE MIDDLE OF
>> Ifill: YOU MENTIONED
A PROPAGANDA WAR, BUT TO WHAT
EARLIER WE ARE IN THE MIDDLE OF
DEGREE DOES IT FEEL WE MAY BE ON
A PROPAGANDA WAR, BUT TO WHAT
THE BRINK OF A CIVIL WAR AS
DEGREE DOES IT FEEL WE MAY BE ON
WELL?
THE BRINK OF A CIVIL WAR AS
>> Reporter: THE TWO THINGS
WELL?
ARE LINKED BECAUSE ONE OF THE
>> Reporter: THE TWO THINGS
GREAT DANGERS HERE IS THAT RUMOR
ARE LINKED BECAUSE ONE OF THE
OR MISINFORMATION CAN TRIGGER
GREAT DANGERS HERE IS THAT RUMOR
EVENTS.
OR MISINFORMATION CAN TRIGGER
PEOPLE HEAR OF SOMETHING
EVENTS.
HAPPENING AND THEN REACT.
PEOPLE HEAR OF SOMETHING
WARS HAVE BEEN STARTED LIKE THAT
HAPPENING AND THEN REACT.
BEFORE BY MISINFORMATION.
WARS HAVE BEEN STARTED LIKE THAT
SOMETIMES DELIBERATE, SOMETIMES
BEFORE BY MISINFORMATION.
ACCIDENTAL.
SOMETIMES DELIBERATE, SOMETIMES
SO THERE CERTAINLY IS A SENSE OF
ACCIDENTAL.
THIS AREA, THIS COUNTRY BEING ON
SO THERE CERTAINLY IS A SENSE OF
THE BRINK OF CIVIL WAR.
THIS AREA, THIS COUNTRY BEING ON
BUT, OF COURSE, IT'S IMPORTANT
THE BRINK OF CIVIL WAR.
TO SAY THAT THIS IS NOT TOO
BUT, OF COURSE, IT'S IMPORTANT
LATE.
TO SAY THAT THIS IS NOT TOO
THERE ARE SUPPOSED TO BE TALKS
LATE.
ON THURSDAY WHICH WOULD INVOLVE
THERE ARE SUPPOSED TO BE TALKS
THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT, THE
ON THURSDAY WHICH WOULD INVOLVE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT, THE
THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT, THE
EUROPEAN UNION AND THE AMERICANS
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT, THE
AS WELL.
EUROPEAN UNION AND THE AMERICANS
A LOT DEPENDS ON
AS WELL.
PRESIDENT PUTIN.
A LOT DEPENDS ON
HE HAS BEEN PUSHING THE
PRESIDENT PUTIN.
SITUATION HERE.
HE HAS BEEN PUSHING THE
I DON'T THINK FOR SURE THERE ARE
SITUATION HERE.
RUSSIAN TROOPS HERE BUT WE CAN
I DON'T THINK FOR SURE THERE ARE
SAY FOR SURE THE RUSSIANS HAVE
RUSSIAN TROOPS HERE BUT WE CAN
BEEN ORCHESTRATING THIS AND HAVE
SAY FOR SURE THE RUSSIANS HAVE
MADE SURE THIS HAPPENS BECAUSE
BEEN ORCHESTRATING THIS AND HAVE
THEY DON'T WANT THE GOVERNMENT
MADE SURE THIS HAPPENS BECAUSE
IN KIEV TO HAVE LEGITIMACY AND
THEY DON'T WANT THE GOVERNMENT
FOR THOSE ELECTIONS TO BE ABLE
IN KIEV TO HAVE LEGITIMACY AND
TO GO AHEAD IN MAY WITH NO
FOR THOSE ELECTIONS TO BE ABLE
PROBLEM.
TO GO AHEAD IN MAY WITH NO
THEY SEIZED CRIMEA, CRIMEA WAS
PROBLEM.
PART OF UKRAINE, NOW ANNEXED TO
THEY SEIZED CRIMEA, CRIMEA WAS
RUSSIA.
PART OF UKRAINE, NOW ANNEXED TO
THAT HAPPENED IN FEBRUARY.
RUSSIA.
SO I THINK THEY ARE SHOWING WHAT
THAT HAPPENED IN FEBRUARY.
THEY CAN DO HERE.
SO I THINK THEY ARE SHOWING WHAT
WHAT MAY BE CALLED FOR NOW IS
THEY CAN DO HERE.
DIPLOMACY AND DIALOGUE BECAUSE I
WHAT MAY BE CALLED FOR NOW IS
THINK EVERYBODY KNOWS JUST HOW
DIPLOMACY AND DIALOGUE BECAUSE I
DANGEROUS THIS SITUATION IS AND
THINK EVERYBODY KNOWS JUST HOW
NOW IS THE MOST DANGEROUS
DANGEROUS THIS SITUATION IS AND
MOMENT.
NOW IS THE MOST DANGEROUS
>> Reporter: LINDSEY HILSUM
MOMENT.
FROM ON THE GROUND IN UKRAINE.
>> Reporter: LINDSEY HILSUM
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK'S LATEST
U.N. REPORT ON CLIMATE CHANGE
WARNS OF THE URGENT NEED FOR
GLOBAL ACTION IN THE NEXT FIVE
TO 15 YEARS, IF COUNTRIES WANT
TO WARD OFF THE WORST IMPACTS OF
RISING EMISSIONS.
IT ALSO LAYS OUT NUMEROUS
SCENARIOS OF WHAT COULD BE DONE.
BUT THOSE OPTIONS COME WITH
DIFFERENT COSTS, AND IN THE
U.S., THERE'S BEEN OPPOSITION IN
CONGRESS AND OFTEN RELUCTANCE
AMONG MUCH OF THE PUBLIC TO SOME
BIG CHANGES.
WE LOOK AT THE ECONOMIC AND
POLITICAL CHALLENGES WITH ROBERT
STAVINS, A LEAD CO-AUTHOR OF THE
REPORT.
HE'S AN ENVIRONMENTAL ECONOMIST
AT THE HARVARD KENNEDY SCHOOL OF
GOVERNMENT.
AND MAURA COWLEY, THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE ENERGY ACTION
COALITION, WHICH INCLUDES 30
YOUTH-LED GROUPS.
WE THANK YOU BOTH FOR BEING WITH
US.
ROBERT STAVINS, LET ME START
WITH YOU.
THIS REPORT STRESSES THE URGENCY
OF DOING SOMETHING NOW,
IMPLEMENTING NEW POLICIES.
GIVE US AN EXAMPLE OF A POLICY
THAT THE UNITED STATES NEEDS TO
IMPLEMENT IN THE NEAR TERM.
>> WELL, JUDE, WHAT'S BECOME
CLEAR IS THAT FOR THIS COUNTRY,
FOR THE UDONLY
APPROACH THAT CONCEIVABLY WOULD
ACHIEVE MEANINGFUL EMISSIONS
REDUCTIONS SUCH AS THOSE THAT
ARE TALKED ABOUT IN THE NEW
REPORT FROM THE NEW
INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON
CLIMATE CHANGE WOULD BE A NEW
SYSTEM, MIGHT BE A CABIN TRADE
SYSTEM AS HAS BEEN DENIGRATED
AND PASSED THE HOUSE BUT NOT THE
SENATE OR PERHAPS A REVENUE
NEUTRAL CARBON TAX BUT SOMETHING
PERVASIVE THROUGHOUT THE ECONOMY
AND SEND THE RIGHT PRICE
SIGNALS.
>> Woodruff: IS THIS SOMETHING
YOU THINK LAWMAKERS COULD
EMBRACE IN TODAY'S POLITICAL
ENVIRONMENT?
>> WELL, IN TODAY'S POLITICAL
ENVIRONMENT WHAT IS FEASIBLE IS
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE UNITED
STATES AND THAT IS THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION IS TAKING SOME
ACTION UNDER EXISTING
REGULATIONS AND THROUGH
EXECUTIVE ORDERS.
IT'S HARD TO DO MUCH MORE THAN
THAT.
HOWEVER, IT'S POSSIBLE, THOUGH,
ACTUALLY BE PROPOSING A CAP AND
TRADE SYSTEM, A TRADABLE PERMIT
SYSTEM, UNDER ONE OF THE
REGULATORY INITIATIVES FOR POWER
PLANTS.
>> Woodruff: LET ME PICK UP
WITH THAT WITH MAURA COWLEY
BECAUSE THE LAST FEW DECADES,
WHENEVER CONGRESS HAS BEEN ASKED
OR SERIOUSLY CONSIDERED ACTION
TO TRY TO GET POLLUTERS TO PAY
FOR THEIR POLLUTION, FOR CARBON
EMISSION, IT'S FAILED, AND
LAWMAKERS WHO VOTED FOR IT OFTEN
WENT ON TO LOSE AT THE POLLS IN
NOVEMBER.
HOW DO YOU SURMOUNT THAT KIND OF
OPPOSITION, THAT KIND OF
PROBLEM?
>> WELL, I THINK TAKING ACTION
ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND REACHING
OUT TO YOUNG VOTERS.
RIGHT NOW, YOUNG VOTERS ARE THE
LARGEST VOTING BLOCK IN THE
COUNTRY, SOON TO OUTNUMBER BABY
BOOMERS AT THE POLLS.
AND OVER 70% OF YOUNG PEOPLE SAY
THEY WILL OAT VOTE AGAINST AN
ELECTED OFFICIAL WHO DOES NOT
TAKE ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE.
SO IF YOU WANT YOUNG PEOPLE TO
VOTE FOR YOU, TAKING ACTION ON
CLIMATE CHANGE IS THE RIGHT WAY
TO GO.
>> Woodruff: AREU SAYING IN
MOST STATES, MOST CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICTS RIGHT NOW YOUNG PEOPLE
HOLD THE PREPONDERANCE OF VOTES?
BECAUSE I FEEL LAWMAKERS ARE
SAYING YOUNG PEOPLE AREN'T
TURNING OUT.
>> YOUNG PEOPLE ELECTED BARACK
OBAMA IN 2008 AND TURNED OUT IN
RECORD NUMBERS IN 2012.
SO I THINK THE MILLENNIAL
GENERATION IS HERE TO STAY WHEN
IT COMES TO VOTING.
>> Woodruff: ROBERT STHERE ARE F
POLITICIANS, IN PARTICULAR
REPUBLICANS, WHO QUESTION THE
SCIENCE, EVEN, QUESTION WHETHER
CARBON EMISSIONS CONTRIBUTE TO
POLLUTION.
HOW DO YOU ADDRESS THAT KIND OF
OPPOSITION OR DOUBT?
>> WELL, JUDY, IN MY VIEW, THE
CLIMATE SKEPTICISM THAT YOU'RE
REFERRING TO THAT EXISTS AMONG
SOME PEOPLE IN THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY, PARTICULARLY THE MORE
CONSERVATIVE PARTS OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, REALLY DOESN'T
HAVE TO DO WITH CLIMATE CHANGE
ITSELF.
IT REALLY HAS TO DO WITH
POLITICAL POLARIZATION THAT'S
BEEN TAKING PLACE.
AS THE REPUBLICAN PARTY HAS
MOVED GRADUALLY TO THE RIGHT FOR
A WHOLE SET OF STRUCTURAL
REASONS.
SO WHAT WE HAVE NOW IS AN
IDEOLOGICAL DIVIDE.
SO, TRAGICALLY, THE DEBATES IN
THE UNITED STATES, THE POLITICAL
DEBATES ON CLIMATE CHANGE ARE
MORE AKIN TO THE DEBATES AT
ISSUE LIKE ABORTION THAN THEY
ARE ON DEBATES WHICH ARE
FUNDAMENTALLY ABOUT THE SCIENCE
AND THINKING ABOUT WHAT'S WISE
AND BEST FOR THE COUNTRY AND
BEST FOR THE PLANET.
>> Woodruff: WELL, CONTINUING
IN THAT LINE OF THINKING, MAURA
COWLEY, YOU KNOW, AS YOU SAID,
YOU'RE THE HEAD OF THIS
GRASSROOTS GROUP REPRESENTING
DIFFERENT ORGANIZATIONS OF YOUNG
PEOPLE, BUT THE POLLERS RIGHT
NOW IN THIS COUNTRY, WE LOOKED
AT THEM, SAID WHILE A MAJORITY
OF AMERICANS SAY, YES, WE THINK
CLIMATE CHANGE IS REAL, BUT
DOING SOMETHING ABOUT IT RANKS
AT THE BOTTOM.
THEY'RE MORE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
JOBS, THE ECONOMIC, IN SOME
CASES HEALTH CARE THAN THEY ARE
CLIMATE, ALWAYS SEEMS TO COME UP
DRIVING UP THE REAR.
>> YEAH, I THINK WHAT WE'RE
SEEING ACROSS THE COUNTRY IN
TERMS OF EXTREME WEATHER IS
REALLY STARTING TO CHANGE
ATTITUDES ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE.
FROM SUPERSTORM SANDY, HURRICANE
KATRINA, THE DROUGHTS IN
CALIFORNIA, THE WILDFIRES IN
COLORADO, PEOPLE ARE WAKING UP
TO THE REALITIES OF CLIMATE
CHANGE AND DEMANDING LEADERS
TAKE ACTION.
WE HAVE HAD HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
GETTING ARRESTED OVER THE
KEYSTONE EXXON PIPELINE.
>> Reporter: PART OF YOUR
COALITION?
>> YES, AND STUDENTS AT
UNIVERSITIES, WASHINGTON
UNIVERSITY IN ST. LOUIS RIGHT
NOW DEMANDING THAT UNIVERSITY
SEVER TIES WITH PEABODY COLE,
ONE OF THE LARGEST POLLUTERS IN
THE WORLD.
SO THERE'S A RISING MOVEMENT
AGAINST THE FOSSIL FUEL
INDUSTRIES AND DEMANDING LEADERS
TAKE ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> Woodruff: ROBERT STAVINS,
HOW MUCH OF THE RESPONSIBILITY
LIES WITH THE UNITED STATES AND
OTHER DEVELOPED COUNTRIES AND
HOW MUCH WITH THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES WHICH ARE NOW
INCREASING THEIR USE OF FOSSIL
FUELS AS THEY EXPAND THEIR
ECONOMIES?
>> WELL, THAT'S A VERY IMPORTANT
ISSUE, AND LET'S NOT DENIGRATE
E AMERICAN POPULATION AND
ASSUME THEY'RE FOOLISH BECAUSE
OF THEIR UNWILLINGNESS TO TAKE
ON ACTIONS AND COSTS.
WE HAVE TO RECOGNIZE, FIRST OF
ALL, WE'RE ASKING A CURRENT
GENERATION OF PEOPLE IN THE
UNITED STATES TO TAKE ON COSTS
OR IN ALL COUNTRIES TO TAKE ON
COSTS TO BENEFIT FUTURE
GENERATIONS, BECAUSE THE WORST
IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE WILL
BE OFF IN THE FUTURE, NOT THIS
YEAR OR NEXT YEAR.
IN ADDITION, WHAT YOU BROUGHT UP
IS THE GLOBAL DISTRIBUTION
ISSUE, AND THAT IS, YOU KNOW,
THE UNITED STATES HAS NOW BEEN
SURPASSED BY CHINA AS THE
WORLD'S LARGEST EMITTER.
IN TERMS OF THE CUMULATIVE
GREENHOUSE GASES IN THE
ATMOSPHERE, THE UNITED STATES IS
STILL IN FIRST PLACE, BUT IN
CURRENT RATES OF ECONOMIC
GROWTH, CHINA IS GOING TO
SURPASS US EVEN IN THE STOCK IN
THE ATMOSPHERE WITHIN A DECADE
OR TWO, DEPENDING ON VARIOUS
FACTORS.
IF WE LOOK OVERALL AT DEVELOPED
COMPARED TO DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES, THE EOCD COUNTRIES,
THE ORGANIZATION OF CHECK
COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT,
ESSENTIALLY THE INDUSTRIALIZED
WORLD, EMISSIONS IN THESE
COUNTRIES ARE FLAT TO DECLINING.
THE RAPID GROWTH IS IN THE
LARGE, RAPIDLY GROWINGICS
EMERGING COUNTRIES.
CHINA, INDIA, BRAZIL,
SOUTH AFRICA, MEXICO AND
INDONESIA.
THEY NEED TO BE INVOLVED.
IF THEY DON'T GET ON THE CLIMATE
POLICY TRAIN, IT'S NOT LEAVING
THE STATION.
A DIFFERENT QUEN, THOUGH, IS
WHETHER OR NOT THEY HAVE TO PAY
FOR THEIR TICKETS.
>> Reporter: WELL, ANDATES
MUCH BIGGER SUBJECT THAN WE CAN
DEAL WITH.
BUT MAURA COWLEY, IN TALKING TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, HOW
IMPORTANT IS IT THAT THEY
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS A SHARED
RESPONSIBILITY WITH OTHER
COUNTRIES?
>> YEAH, I THINK IT'S CRITICAL
THEY UNDERSTAND THAT THE UNITED
STATES NEEDS TO HELP LEAD THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO TAKE
ACTION OBSERVE CLIMATE CHANGE,
AND RIGHT NOW WE'RE SEEING
PEOPLE ACROSS THE COUNTRY REALLY
DEMANDING PRESIDENT OBAMA STEP
UP AND ENACT STRONG REGULATIONS
TO REGULATE CARBON RIGHT HERE IN
THE UNITED STATES, AND DOING
THAT WILL SEND A MAJOR SIGNAL
ALL ACROSS THE GLOBE THAT WE ARE
SERIOUS ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE,
THAT WE ARE READY TO TAKE
ACTION.
IT WOULD HELP EASE THE PATH
FORWARD SO ALL THOSE OTHER
COUNTRIES WOULD JOIN US.
>> Woodruff: MAURA COWLEY,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ROBERT STAVINS, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, PART TWO OF
JEFFREY BROWN'S LOOK AT MYANMAR,
THE COUNTRY FORMERLY KNOWN AS
BURMA.
AFTER YEARS OF TURMOIL, THE
MILITARY GOVERNMENT IS MOVING
TOWARD POLITICAL REFORM.
BUT AS THE COUNTRY BEGINS TO
OPEN UP TO THE OUTSIDE WORLD,
THERE'S A NEW CONCERN: HOW
DEVELOPMENT COULD OVERSHADOW ITS
ARCHITECTURAL AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL
PAST.
THAT'S THE SUBJECT OF JEFF'S
REPORT TONIGHT, WHICH ALSO MARKS
THE BEGINNING OF A NEW SERIES,
ONE WE CALL "CULTURE AT RISK".
WE'LL EXPLORE THE IMPACT OF WAR,
CLIMATE CHANGE, NEGLECT AND
MORE, ON CULTURAL ARTIFACTS
AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Brown: THE AFTERNOON RUSH
HOUR IN YANGON: WORKERS BOARD
WATER TAXIS FOR THE COMMUTE
HOME.
ON THE STREETS, FOOD VENDORS
SERVE TEA AND NOODLES.
BUDDHIST MONKS IN THEIR MAROON
ROBES ARE EVERYWHERE.
AND THE ANCIENT SCHWEDEGON
PAGODA, HUNDREDS OF TEMPLES,
STATUES AND STUPAS, REMAINS THE
COUNTRY'S MOST IMPORTANT SHRINE.
YANGON, THE CITY ONCE KNOWN AS
RANGOON, IS OFTEN SAID TO BE
FROZEN IN TIME, THE RESULT OF A
MILITARY REGIME THAT KEPT HIS
COUNTRY LARGELY ISOLATED FROM
THE MODERN WORLD FOR MORE THAN
50 YEARS.
BUT THAT'SNG
QUICKLY, AND A KEY QUESTION HERE
IS HOW TO PRESERVE SOMETHING OF
THE PAST WHILE MOVING INTO A
21ST CENTURY FUTURE.
>> THERE'S NO URBAN LANDSCAPE
LIKE THIS LEFT ANYWHERE IN THE
WORLD.
>> Brown: THANT MYINT U, A
HARVARD-EDUCATED HISTORIAN, IS
HEAD OF "THE YANGON HERITAGE
TRUST."
AS MYANMAR OPENS UP, HE SAYS,
THE NATION'S VERY SENSE OF
ITSELF, TOLD IN PART THROUGH
IT'S BUILDINGS, IS AT STAKE.
>> WHAT WE HAVE NOW IS A
PHYSICAL LANDSCAPE THAT'S
STARTING TO CHANGE, BUT ALSO
THIS OPPORTUNITY TO REMEMBER
THIS HISTORY, AND TO TRY TO
BEGIN TO SAVE WHAT WE CAN,
BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE.
>> Brown: DOWNTOWN YANGON IS
FILLED WITH GRAND BUILDINGS,
MANY FROM ITS BRITISH-RULED,
COLONIAL-ERA, THE END OF THE
19TH CENTURY UNTIL WORLD WAR
TWO.
THE HUGE SECRETARIAT, FOR
EXAMPLE, HOUSED THE BRITISH
ADMINISTRATION BUT WAS ALSO SITE
OF THE ASSASSINATION OF BURMA'S
INDEPENDENCE HERO, AUNG SAN,
FATHER OF AUNG SAN SUU KYI
SOME HAVE BEEN RESTORED, LIKE
THE STRAND HOTEL, WHERE RUDYARD
KIPLING AND GEORGE ORWELL
STAYED.
AND THE ROWE AND CO. BUILDING
THE CITY'S FIRST DEPARTMENT
STORE, SOON TO OPEN AS A BANK
HEADQUARTERS.
BUT MANY OTHERS, LIKE THE
BALTHAZAR, HAVE STOOD IN A STATE
OF NEGLECT FOR DECADES.
>> SO YOU HAVE THIS KIND OF
DYSTOPIAN WORLD HERE.
>> Brown: OH WOW.
AND TODAY SERVE AS HOME TO
SQUATTERS WHO LIVE AMONG RATS
AND SQUALOR.
>> DOZENS OF FAMILIES, THIS IS
REALLY A BUILDING THAT PEOPLE
SHOULDN'T BE LIVING IN.
>> Brown: HUNDREDS OF BUILDINGS
HAVE ALREADY BEEN TORN DOWN TO
MAKE WAY FOR NEW ONES, AND THANT
MYINT U AND HIS COLLEAGUES ARE
WORKING TO PRESERVE WHAT THEY
CAN.
WHAT STARTED WITH THE PLIGHT OF
A HANDFUL OF BUILDINGS HAS
BECOME A LARGER QUEST FOR SMART
GROWTH.
>> THE LAST THING I WOULD WANT
TO SEE IS A SORT OF SANITIZED
TOURIST ZONE THAT'S GOOD FOR
JUST TOURISTS AND SOME RICH
BURMESE, WITH FIVE STAR HOTELS
AND VERY EXPENSIVE RESTAURANTS.
SO I THINK WE'RE TRYING TO GET
THE ECONOMICS OF CONSERVATION
RIGHT, SEEING HOW WE CANNOT JUST
PRESERVE THE BUILDINGS, BUT
REALLY TRY TO KEEP INTACT SOME
OF THESE COMMUNITIES THAT HAVE
BEEN HERE FOR GENERATIONS.
>> Brown: SOME OF THIS HISTORY
IS VERY COMPLICATED.
YANGON HAS A COLONIAL PAST AND A
LOT OF PEOPLE, I WOULD THINK,
DON'T REALLY WANT TO REMEMBER
IT.
>> NO ONE HAS A POSITIVE VIEW OF
COLONIALISM AS COLONIALISM, BUT
WHAT I TRY TO SAY IS THAT THIS
COLONIAL ERA LANDSCAPE DOWNTOWN
IS ALSO WHERE THE BURMESE PEOPLE
FIRST LEARNED TO BE MODERN, IT'S
WHERE BURMA'S GREATEST ANTI-
COLONIAL POLITICIANS, ANTI-
COLONIAL WRITERS, MUSICIANS,
ARTISTS, AND OTHERS LIVED AND
WORKED, AND SO IT'S IMPORTANT
FOR OUR HISTORY.
>> Brown: THIS REMAINS AN
EXTREMELY POOR COUNTRY, WHERE
MOST PEOPLE LIVE THROUGH
SUBSISTENCE FARMING.
BUT AS THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT
HAS RELAXED ITS GRIP ON THE
ECONOMY, INVESTMENT IS POURING
IN FROM ASIA AS WELL AS EUROPE
AND THE U.S.
AND YANGON'S POPULATION IS
MILLION IN THE NEXT 25 YEARS.
THE DEMAND FOR OFFICE-SPACE AND
HOUSING IS EXPLODING, AND RENTS
ARE ALREADY RO
ESPECIALLY DOWNTOWN, WHERE NEW
BUILDINGS SIT, UNEASILY AT
TIMES, NEXT TO OLD.
>> Brown: THIS IS TEARING DOWN
WHAT WAS HERE?
>> YEAH, I FEEL A LITTLE SORRY
THAT THE BUILDING HAS BEEN TORN
DOWN AND--
>> Brown: YOU FEEL A LITTLE
SORRY?
>> YEAH, BUT I GOT NO CHOICE.
IT HAS TO BE DONE.
>> Brown: TWENTY-NINE YEAR OLD
MOE ZAT MONE OVERSEES OPERATIONS
AT TWO CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES
THAT OPERATE AROUND THE COUNTRY.
A NATIVE OF YANGON, EDUCATED IN
ENGLAND, HE'S EAGER TO BE PART
OF CHANGE AND GROWTH IN MYANMAR.
HE SHOWED US A MODEL FOR A NEW
LUXURY HOTEL, PLANNED AS THREE
STORIES FOR NOW BUT, DEPENDING
ON WHAT INVESTORS WANT, POSSIBLY
AS HIGH AS 15.
ALL PART, HE SAYS, OF DEVELOPING
A MODERN CITY.
>> WE NEED MORE INFRASTRUCTURE,
MORE HOTELS, HOSPITALS, AND MORE
SERVICE APARTMENTS AND OFFICE
RENTALS.
>> Brown: ARE YOU OPTIMISTIC
THAT YANGON CAN BE A LIVABLE
CITY, EVEN AS IT GROWS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK IT, COME IN FIVE YEARS'
TIME.
I THINK THIS COUNTRY WILL BE
ABLE TO COMPETE WITH OUR
NEIGHBORS IN SOUTH ASIA.
>> Brown: COME IN FIVE YEARS
TIME?
MANY ARE ALREADY COMING
SOME TOURING IN HOT-AIR
BALLOONS.
AND HERE IN BAGAN, THREE HUNDRED
MILES NORTHWEST OF YANGON, THAT
RAISES OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
FUTURE.
BAGAN IS AN ARCHEOLOGICAL
WONDER, CAPITAL OF A FORMER
BURMESE KINGDOM AND SAID TO
CONTAIN THE HIGHEST
CONCENTRATION OF BUDDHIST
ARCHITECTURE OF ANY PLACE IN THE
WORLD.
SEVERAL THOUSAND PAGODAS AND
TEMPLES IN A VARIETY OF SHAPES,
STYLES AND SIZES, SOME DATING
BACK MORE THAN A THOUSAND YEARS.
ONE ISSUE HERE IS SHEER NUMBERS:
HOW MANY TOURISTS, AND HOTELS
AND BUSES TO ACCOMMODATE THEM,
CAN THE SITE HOLD?
OF COURSE, IF YOU'RE A CARRIAGE
DRIVER, LIKE MYO HAN, THE MORE
TOURISTS, THE BETTER FOR YOU AND
YOUR CHILDREN.
HIS YOUNGEST IS FINISHING HIGH
SCHOOL SOON, THE FIRST IN THE
FAMILY TO DO SO, WITH THE HOPE
OF BECOMING A TOUR GUIDE.
MYO HAN HIMSELF WAS ONCE A
FARMER.
>> ( translated ): A FARMER'S
LIFE IS VERY HARD AND POOR.
DRIVING A HORSE CARRIAGE IS
EASIER.
I CAN MAKE MUCH MORE MONEY.
>> Brown: ANOTHER ISSUE HERE:
HIGHLY CONTROVERSIAL RESTORATION
AND RE-BUILDING PRACTICES.
>> Brown: SO THE MONASTERY WAS
THERE?
>> A MONASTERY COMPLEX.
>> Brown: U MYO NUNT SERVED
UNTIL RECENTLY AS DEPUTY
DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
ARCHEOLOGY IN BAGAN.
HE EXPLAINED AS EARTHQUAKES TOOK
THEIR TOLL OVER THE YEARS
MUCH RESTORATION WAS DONE
PIECEMEAL, AND NOT BY
INTERNATIONALLY-RECOGNIZED
STANDARDS.
BUT THESE ARE BUDDHIST SHRINES,
HE POINTS OUT, SEEN AS PLACES OF
WORSHIP.
>> ( translated ): PEOPLE PUT
GOLD COATING OR LIME WASH ON THE
PAGODAS TO MAKE THEM LOOK NICE,
THINKING THAT WILL BRING GOOD
KARMA.
>> Brown: OTHER PRACTICES, SUCH
AS THE BUILDING OF FAUX-HISTORIC
PAGODAS, THIS ONE BY A FORMER
TOP GENERAL, ALSO RAISED
CONCERNS.
ALL OF THIS LEADING UNESCO TO
DENY BAGAN WORLD HERITAGE
DESIGNATION.
THERE IS NOW INTERNATIONALLY-
SANCTIONED WORK BEING DONE HERE.
WE WATCHED AN EFFORT AT ONE OF
BAGAN'S OLDEST AND MOST
IMPORTANT STRUCTURES, THE 12TH
CENTURY ANANDA TEMPLE, TO REMOVE
LAYERS OF WHITE LIME COATINGS, A
$22 MILLION PROJECT BEING
FINANCED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF
INDIA, AND OVERSEEN BY INDIAN
EXPERTS.
AT THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE, AS
YOUNG PEOPLE REHEARSED
TRADITIONAL DANCES, ANOTHER KIND
OF CULTURAL PRESERVATION, DEPUTY
MINISTER SANDA KHIN INSISTED A
NEW AWARENESS HAD TAKEN HOLD.
>> ( translated ): EARLIER
GENERATIONS TRIED TO PRESERVE
AND CONSERVE THEIR PRECIOUS
MONUMENTS IN THEIR OWN WAY.
AT THE TIME, THE STUDY OF
ARCHAEOLOGICAL PRACTICES WAS NOT
WIDELY SPREAD, SO THEY USED
THEIR OWN TRADITIONAL WAYS OF
CONSERVING THE TEMPLES FOR THE
LAST 20 YEARS, WITH THE
ER WAYS OF OF UNESCO, WE HAVE
PRESERVATION THAT ARE IN
ACCORDANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL
NORMS.
>> Brown: TODAY, MYANMAR
WRESTLES WITH MANY CHALLENGES:
LONG-STANDING ETHNIC TENSIONS
AN UNCERTAIN MOVE TO DEMOCRACY,
AND A JOLT INTO THE GLOBAL
MARKETPLACE.
ADD ONE MORE: HOW TO MANAGE AND
PRESERVE PART OF ITS PAST, EVEN
WHILE BUILDING ITS FUTURE.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN SEE MORE
PHOTOS OF THE STUNNING
ARCHITECTURE OF BAGAN, THAT'S ON
"ART BEAT."
>> Ifill: 47 MILLION PEOPLE, OR
ONE OUT OF EVERY SEVEN
AMERICANS, RELY ON GOVERNMENT
ASSISTANCE TO FEED THEIR
FAMILIES EACH MONTH.
FOR THEM, THE $78 BILLION
FEDERAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM, LONG KNOWN
AS FOOD STAMPS, IS A LIFELINE.
WASHINGTON POST REPORTER ELI
SASLOW SET OUT TO TRACE THAT
LIFELINE IN A SERIES OF STORIES
THAT TOOK HIM FAR BEYOND THE
TYPICAL WASHINGTON LIGHTNING ROD
ARGUMENT.
YESTERDAY, HE WAS AWARDEDSM'S HE
PULITZER PRIZE XP
REPORTING, FOR HIS WORK.
HE JOINS ME NOW.
ELI, CONGRATULATIONS, FIRST OF
ALL.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
PLEASURE TO BE HERE.
>> Ifill: THANK YOU.
YOU SPEND A LOT OF TIME TALKING
ABOUT FOOD AND SECURITY IN
WASHED.
YOU DECIDED TO GO TO
RHODE ISLAND AND FLORIDA AND
TENNESSEE AND TEXAS AND EVEN
HERE IN WASHINGT D
TO THE BOTTOM OF THAT STORY.
WHY?
>> BECAUSE THESE ARE THE PLACES
WHERE PEOPLE ARE STILL
SUFFERING.
I THINK IT'S EASY HERE IN D.C.
OR A LOT OF PLACES TO FEEL LIKE
THE ECONOMY HAS RECOVERED, THE
RECESSION IS OVER, PEOPLE ARE
DOING BETTER, THE STOCK MARKET
IS UP, BUT THE TRUTH IS THERE IS
THIS LASTING SCAR OF THE
ECONOMIC COLLAPSE AND IT'S THESE
47 MILLION PEOPLE, ONE IN SEVEN
AMERICANS WHO ARE NOW DEPENDING
ON THE GOVERNMENT FOR THEIR FOOD
AND IT'S A PROGRAM THAT'S GROWN
FOUR TIMES IN SIZE IN THE LAST
TEN YEARS AND THOSE ARE THE
PEOPLE WORTH PAYING ATTENTION
TO.
>> Ifill: MANY OF THE STORIES
YOU WROTE TALKED ABOUT THE BOOM
ECONOMY AROUND THE FIRST OF THE
MONTH, ILLUSTRATED WITH GREAT
GOAFTS BY MICHAEL WILLIAMS AT
"THE WASHINGTON POST."
DESCRIBE WHAT THE BOON ECONOMY
IS.
>> FOOD STAMPS HAVE GROWN TO
SORT OF AN ECONOMY UNTO
THEMSELVES.
THE FIRST OF THE MONTH IS WHEN
PEOPLE USUALLY GET THEIR
BENEFIT.
FOR MOST PEOPLE THE END O
MONTH IS A COUNTDOWN, THE
REFRIGERATORS ARE MORE EMPTY,
THEY HAVE LESS AND LESS AND THE
FIRST OF THE MONTH COMES AND
THEY SHOP AS QUICKLY AS THEY
CAN.
IN GROCERY STORES ACROSS
AMERICA, A LOT OF STORES MAY DO
20% OF BUSINESS OF THE MONTH ON
THE FIRST DAY, THEN THE REST OF
THE MONTH IS A TRICKLE DOWN.
SO IT'S NOT JUST MONEY COMING TO
THE PEOPLE ON FOOD STAMPS BUT
ENTIRE TOWNS ARE DEPENDING ON
THE FIRST OF THE MONTH AS AN
ECONOMIC BOON.
>> Ifill: THE LIFELINE GOES TO
THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY NOT JUST
THE INDIVIDUALS.
>> YES, TO THE INDIVIDUALS, THE
STORES, THE BANKS, AND TO THE
EMPLOYEES THE GROCERY STORE
HIRES.
IN WOONSOCKET, RHODE ISLAND, 40%
OF THE TOWN RECEIVES FOOD
STAMPS, SO THIS IS SOMETHING A
HUGE PERCENT OF THE POPULATION
IS DEPENDING ON.
>> Ifill: DO CHARITIES FILL
THE GAP, THE FOOD PANTRIES?
>> THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EVEN
SAYS IN BEST CASE SCENARIO FOOD
STAMPS GIVE YOU ENOUGH MONEY FOR
17 DAYS, SO THAT LEAVES YOU 13
DAYS EVEN IN A BEST-CASE
SCENARIO THAT YOU HAVE TO TAKE
CARE OF.
THAT'S A HUGE GAP FOR FOOD
PANTRIES AND FOOD BANKS TO FILL.
THEY ARE TOTALLY OVERWHELMED AND
HURTING, TOO.
SO THAT GAP, THEY'RE NOT QUITE
MAKING IT.
>> Ifill: IN THE TOWNS WE
TALKED ABOUT, YOU WENT EVEN TO A
BORDER TOWN IN TEXAS AND TO
FLORIDA AND CAPTURED THE IDEA
THE PEOPLE BENEFITING FROM THIS
ARE ELDERLY AND CHILDREN AND
EVERYBODY IN BETWEEN.
>> YES, IT HITS EVERYBODY.
HALF THE PEOPLE ON FOOD STAMPS,
HALF OF THAT MONEY GOES TO
CHILDREN.
SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ALMOST
25 MILLION CHILDREN EATING IN
PART BASED ON THIS PROGRAM.
ELDERLY PEOPLE ARE SUMMED UP IN
HIGH NUMBERS BUT THE TRUTH IS
THEY'RE NOT SIGNED UP TO WHERE
THEY SHOULD BE.
ONLY 25% OF ELDERLY PEOPLE WHO
CAN SIGN UP FOR FOOD STAMPS SIGN
UP BECAUSE THERE IS STILL A A
STIGMA.
>> Ifill: SHAME INVOLVED.
YES, SO THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
GO AROUND AND TALK TO PEOPLE
ABOUT THE PROGRAM AND FUNDING
THE PROGRAM SO MAYBE THEY'LL
SIGN UP.
>> Ifill: IS WASHINGTON
SERIOUSLY TACKLING THESE ISSUES?
>> I THINK SOME PEOPLE ARE
TRYING BUT THE TRUTH IS RIGHT
NOW WASHINGTON IS NOT SET UP
SUPER WELL TO DEAL WITH
COMPLICATED ISSUES AND THIS IS
MAYBE THE MOST COMPLEX.
THE STORIES IN THE SERIES
IS ABOUT A CONGRESSMAN TRYING TO
CUT FOOD STAMPS --
>> Ifill: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS.
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN,
SUTHERLAND, HAS HIS OWN REASONS
FOR WANTING TO DO IT.
HE HADN'T YET SPOKEN TO THE MAIN
DEMOCRAT WORKING ON THE FOOD
STAMP PROGRAM.
SO PEOPLE AREN'T REALLY TALKING
TO EACH OTHER AND IT'S HARD TO
SELL THINGS WHEN YOU'RE NOT EVEN
IN CONVERSATION.
>> Ifill: AS A REPORTER, A
MIDDLE CLASS GUY WHO WENT INTO
THESE PEOPLE'S HOMES AND LIVES,
AND YOU DECIDED TO TELL THIS
STORY FROM THE INSIDE-OUT, HOW
DO YOU DO THAT?
HOW DO YOU BALANCE THAT AS A
JOURNALIST?
>> IT'S THE PRIVILEGE OF THE
JOB.
THND JOURNALISM I DO,
NARRATIVE JOURNALISM, I MIGHT BE
WRITING ABOUT BIG ISSUES AND
NUMBERS BUT I'M DOING THAT BY
GOING INTO PEOPLE'S LIVES AND
INTO THEIR HOMES AND NOT JUST
INTERVIEWING THEM FOR A FEW
MINUTES OR HOURS, BUT REALLY
SHADOWING THEM SOMETIMES FOR A
WEEK OR TWO AT A TIME, AND
THAT'S A LOT TO ASK OF PEOPLE,
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU'RE THERE IN
THOSE WEEKS WHEN THE FRIDGE IS
MORE AND MORE EMPTY AND MAYBE
THERE ARE THREE OR FOUR KIDS NOT
HAVING VERY MUCH TO EAT OR
WAITING FOR ONE DAY PROVIDED BY
A FOOD BANK.
IT'S ENCOURAGING TO HAVE PEOPLE
LET YOU IN AND WRITE ABOUT IT.
WE TRY TO DO A GOOD JOB TELLING
THEIR STORIES AND DOING IT
FAIRLY AND HONESTLY.
>> Ifill: YOU DID A GREAT JOB
AND THE NOBEL PEAC PULITZER PRIE
RECOGNIZED THAT.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, ABOUT 15% OF
SENIORS IN THE U.S. LIVE BELOW
THE POVERTY LINE AND MANY
STRUGGLE TO FIND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
BUT A UNIQUE COMMUNITY IN OREGON
IS OFFERING LOW-INCOME SENIORS
REDUCED RENTS, IN EXCHANGE FOR
THEIR TIME.
VOLUNTEERING TIME, TO BE
SPECIFIC.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CAT WISE REPORTS
FOR OUR "TAKING CARE" SERIES.
>> Reporter: FOUR YEARS AGO,
JACKIE LYNN BEGAN THE PROCESS OF
ADOPTING HER NIECES CHILDREN WHO
WERE LIVING IN THE FOSTER CARE
IN PORTLAND, OREGON.
THEIR MOTHER AND FATHER, BOTH
DRUG ADDICTS, ARE NOW IN JAIL.
LYNN IS SIXTY, SHE'S RAISED TWO
GROWN CHILDREN OF HER OWN, AND
SHE WORKS FULL-TIME.
>> IT WAS TOUGH.
I HAD NO SUPPORT WHATSOEVER.
I'D BE FIXING DINNER, AND DOING
HOMEWORK, AND TAKING CARE OF
KIDS, AND LAUNDRY, AND ALL OF
IT.
THE KIDS WEREN'T GETTING THE
ATTENTION THAT THEY NEEDED.
>> Reporter: BUT IN 2011, LYNN
AND THE KIDS MOVED TO BRIDGE
MEADOWS, A SUPPORTIVE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT FOR FAMILIES WHO
ADOPT FOSTER CHILDREN.
THAT IN ITSELF IS PRETTY UNIQUE,
BUT WHAT REALLY SETS THIS
PROPERTY APART IS THIS.
>> HI, HOW ARE YOU?
>> Reporter: JIM AND JOY
CORCORAN ARE LYNNS NEIGHBORS,
AND THEY ARE KNOWN HERE AS THES.
THERE ARE 27 APARTMENTS AT
BRIDGE MEADOWS FOR LOW-INCOME
SENIORS WHO AGREE TO VOLUNTEER
ABOUT TEN HOURS A WEEK WITH THE
ADOPTIVE FAMILIES, IN EXCHANGE
FOR REDUCED RENTS.
AND FOR JACKIE LYNN, THAT
SUPPORT HAS BEEN CRUCIAL.
>> THEY ARE THE REASON THAT WE
THRIVE.
JIM TAKES THE BOYS EVERY SUNDAY
MORNING FOR ABOUT THREE HOURS.
THEY COME HOME EXCITED, WITH ALL
THESE WONDERFUL STORIES.
YOU SEE MY CHILDREN RUNNING UP
TO THE ELDERS AND GIVING THEM
HUGS, ITS JUST INCREDIBLE TO
WATCH.
>> Reporter: JIM AND JOY
CORCORAN, WHO STRUGGLED
FINANCIALLY AFTER JIM LOST HIS
JOB IN THE CONSTRUCTION
INDUSTRY, NOW PAY $500 A MONTH
FOR A ONE BEDROOM, ONE BATH
APARTMENT.
>> IT WAS REALLY DIFFICULT TO
FIND ANY DECENT HOUSING THAT WE
COULD AFFORD IN ANY REGARD.
SO WHEN WE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY
TO MOVE HERE, IT WAS JUST A GOD-
SEND, IT WAS LIKE A HUGE RELIEF.
>> Reporter: JOY IS AN ARTIST
WITH A LONG-TERM DISABILITY.
SHE LEADS STORY TIME EVERY WEEK
IN THE COMMUNITY LIBRARY.
>> IT'S SORT OF ALMOST LIKE A
FANTASY OF BEING A LIBRARIAN, OR
A TEACHER, OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT, THAT I CAN'T REALLY DO
PHYSICALLY, BUT NOW I HAVE THAT
OPTION TO SHARE WITH CHILDREN.
>> Reporter: THE DEVELOPMENT IS
FUNDED BY RENTS, AS WELL AS
DONATIONS FROM CORPORATIONS,
FOUNDATIONS, AND PRIVATE
INDIVIDUALS.
THE OLD AND YOUNG MIX HERE,
EVERY DAY, IN MULTIPLE WAYS.
ONCE A WEEK EVERYONE COMES
TOGETHER IN THE
INTERGENERATIONAL COMMUNITY
ROOM.
ELDERS PROVIDE BABYSITTING,
TUTORING, MUSIC LESSONS, EVEN
RIDES TO SCHOOL.
AND THERE ARE COUNSELORS ON SITE
TO HELP BOTH THE FAMILIES, AND
SENIORS, COPE WITH THE
CHALLENGES OF CARING FOR
CHILDREN WHO HAVE OFTEN BEEN
THROUGH A LOT.
DERENDA SCHUBERT IS EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR.
>> ONE OF THE BEAUTIFUL FEATURES
OF BRIDGE MEADOWS IS THAT
THERE'S RECIPROCITY AMONG THE
GENERATIONS, SO THE ELDERS ARE
PROVIDING LOVE AND SUPPORT TO
THE FAMILIES, AND THE FAMILIES
ARE DOING THE SAME, AND EVEN THE
CHILDREN, THEY ARE GIVING BACK
TO THE ELDERS.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, SCHUBERT
SAYS THAT THE HEALTH OF MANY OF
THE SENIORS, BOTH PHYSICAL AND
MENTAL, HAS IMPROVED SINCE THEY
MOVED IN.
BUT SHE ADMITS THE CLOSE-KNIT
COMMUNITY IS NOT FOR EVERYONE.
>> WE HAVE HAD SOME FOLKS MOVE
IN AND REALIZE, IT'S A LITTLE
BIT OF A FISHBOWL AND I DON'T
KNOW THAT I WANT EVERYBODY
KNOWING MY BUSINESS.
THE BEST PART IS PEOPLE KNOW
YOUR BUSINESS, AND THE WORST
PART IS PEOPLE KNOW YOUR
BUSINESS, SO IF THAT'S NOT
SOMETHING YOU'RE LOOKING FOR, AN
INTENTIONAL, INTERGENERATIONAL
COMMUNITY IS PROBABLY NOT FOR
YOU, BUT IF YOU REALLY ARE
LOOKING FOR A GROUP OF PEOPLE
WHO YOU FEEL LIKE YOU'RE NOW AN
INTEGRAL PART OF A COMMUNITY,
THEN THIS IS A BEAUTIFUL PLACE
TO AGE.
>> Reporter: FOR HIS PART, JIM
CORCORAN SAYS HE CANT IMAGINE
BEING ANYWHERE ELSE.
>> WE'RE FLOURISHING, AND
EVOLVING IN THIS ENVIRONMENT,
WE'RE GROWING BIG TIME.
IF YOU GO TO LIVE IN AN
APARTMENT COMPLEX WITH A BUNCH
OF OLDER PEOPLE, FOR INSTANCE,
PEOPLE KIND OF WITHER AWAY, AND
IT'S REALLY NOT RIGHT.
CONNECTIONS ACROSS THE
GENERATIONS IS CRITICAL,
ABSOLUTELY CRITICAL FOR AGING
WELL.
>> Reporter: DEMAND FOR HOUSING
AT BRIDGE MEADOWS REMAINS HIGH
FROM SENIORS AND ADOPTIVE
FAMILIES, SOME 8,000 CHILDREN IN
OREGON'S FOSTER CARE SYSTEM ARE
AWAITING PERMANENT PLACEMENT.
CONSTRUCTION ON A NEW PROPERTY,
ACROSS TOWN, IS EXPECTED TO
BEGIN NEXT YEAR.
AND BRIDGE MEADOW STAFF ARE NOW
CONSULTING WITH SEVERAL OTHER
COMMUNITIES AROUND THE U.S. THAT
ARE PLANNING TO OPEN SIMILAR
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE COMING
YEARS.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, AS WE
MARK THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE
BOSTON MARATHON BOMBINGS, A
PERSONAL TALE OF RECOVERY ANDUG.
AT LEAST 16 PEOPLE LOST LIMBS IN
THE ATTACKS.
THAT INCLUDES A PAIR OF
BROTHERS, PAUL AND J.P. NORDEN,
FROM STONEHAM, MASSACHUSETTS,
WHO EACH LOST A LEG.
EMILY ROONEY OF W.G.B.H. NEWS
SAT DOWN  T.
HERE IS PART OF THEIR
CONVERSATION.
A YEAR AGO THIS TIME, PAUL AND
J.P. NORDEN HAD JUST BEEN LAID
OFF AS SHEET WORKERS AND COULD
BE AT THE MARATHON TO CHEER ON A
BUDDY.
THEY WERE OUTSIDE THE FINISH
LINE WHEN THEY HEARD THE BOMB GO
OFF.
>> SOME PEOPLE WERE CRYING,
SCARED, I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT IT
WAS.
IT WAS JUST -- THAT'S IT.
A FRIEND OF OURS IS, LIKE, ALL
RIGHT, WE'VE GOT TO GET IN THE
STREET.
WE JUST DIDN'T MAKE IT.
>> Reporter: EXACTLY 12
SECONDS PASSED BEFORE THE SECOND
EXPLOSION.
DO YOU REMEMBER RESCUE PEOPLE
COMING TO HELP YOU?
>> YES, I WAS LAYING ON THE
SIDELINE.
I THOUGHT IT TOOK A WHILE FOR
THEM TO LOOK AT ME.
IT WAS JUST SECONDS.
BUT FELT LIKE MINUTES WHEN
YOU'RE LAYING THERE AND HURTING.
THEY WERE ALL HUDDLED AROUND,
PEOPLE TAKING THEIR SHIRTS OFF
USING THEM FOR TOURNIQUETS.
THEY DID A GOOD JOB ON ME, I
THINK, ANYWAYS.
>> Reporter: YOU SAID YOU BOTH
WERE AWARE AT THAT SECOND THAT
SOMETHING TERRIBLE HAD HAPPENED,
YOU WERE AWAY.
>> I WAS SO HURT AND I JUST
LOOKED OVER AND I SAW HIM.
I WAS YELLING TO HIM AND HE
COULDN'T HEAR ME.
I SAW HIS LEG OFF BUT HIM
SITTING UP.
I SAW HIM FROM THE SIDE.
SOY DIDN'T SEE THE BURNS AND
STUFF UP THERE.
HE LOOKED FINE EXCEPT BESIDES
HIS LEG BEING BLOWN OFF, IT
LOOKED LIKE NOTHING WAS REALLY
BOTHERING HIM.
I KNEW HE LOST HIS LEG AND HE
WAS HURT BUT I DIDN'T KNOW HOW
BAD.
>> Reporter: DID YOU KNOW YOU
HAD LOST A LEG, ALSO?
>> I KNEW THAT BECAUSE WHEN IT
FIRST WENT OFF, I WAS CONFUSED
BUT I THOUGHT I GOT PUNCHED.
I DIDN'T KNOW.
I WAS ROLLING AROUND AND I TRIED
TO GET UP AND PUT THIS FOOT ON
THE GROUND AND I COULDN'T.
IT WAS GONE.
>> Reporter: SO YOU WERE BOTH
ABLE TO GIVE YOUR NAMES AND YOU
WERE CONSCIOUS ENOUGH?
>> I CALLED MY MOM.
>> Reporter: YOU CALLED YOUR
MOM.
>> YEAH.
>> Reporter: WHAT DID YOU SAY?
I DIDN'T WANT TO SAY TOO MUCH
BECAUSE I DIDN'T WANT TO WORRY
MY MOM, BECAUSE W BE
DEVASTATED, SO I DIDN'T WANT TO
TELL HER TOO MUCH.
BUT I DIDN'T REALIZE HOW BAD I
WAS HURT.
>> Reporter: PAUL AND J.P.
RECENTLY PENNED A BOOK "TWICE AS
STRONG" RECOUNTING THEIR LIVES
BEFORE AND AFTER THE BOSTON
MARATHON.
AS IT TURNS OUT, NEITHER BROTHER
REALLY KNEW WHAT HAPPENED ABOUT
THE OTHER THAT DAY UNTIL THEY
READ THOSE PORTIONS OF THE BOOK.
>> WHEN I WAS READING THE BOOK
AND SAW WHAT HE HAD TO GO
THROUGH, IT MADE ME CRY.
IT WAS TOUGH TO SEE WHAT HE WENT
THROUGH.
THEN IN GENERAL, HEARING ALL THE
OTHER STUFF THAT WENT ON,
BECAUSE I WAS IN A
MEDICALLY-INDUCED COMA, SO I
MISSED THE FIRST WEEK OF
APRIL 15th THROUGH THE 22nd,
SO I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENED.
>> Reporter: WRITING THE BOOK,
BUZZ THAT CATHARTIC FOR YOU AT
ALL?
>> THE BOOK WAS THERAPEUTIC FOR
ALL OF US.
YOU KNOW, EVEN TO THIS DAY,
LIKE, WE HAVEN'T SAT DOWN AND
TALKED ABOUT THE WHOLE THING,
YOU KNOW, BECAUSE OUR FOCUS IN
THE BEGINNING IS GETTING ON WITH
THIS, PUTTING IT BEHIND US.
BUT THE BOOK WAS INTERESTING TO
HEAR EVERYBODY'S SIDE.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE ADJUSTING
TO HAVING A PROSTHETIC LEG.
DO YOU STILL THINK ABOUT IT
EVERY DAY OR HAS IT BECOME
ROUTINE FOR YOU?
>> UNFORTUNATELY, WE HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT IT EVERY DAY BECAUSE
WHEN WE GET UP IN THE MORNING,
WE HAVE TO PUT OUR LEG ON.
I'M STILL SORE ALL THE TIME.
HIM BEING ABOVE ME AND JUST TO
WATCH, HE HAS TO DO THINGS
DIFFERENTLY.
>> IT WAS PRETTY TUFF, YOWRNTION
IT WAS DIFFICULT THE FIRST
COUPLE OF SNOWSTORMS.
HARD ON BLACK EYES FOR EITHER
ONE OF US, YOU KNOW.
BUT WE'LL GET USED TO IT AND
ADJUST.
>> Reporter: YOU BOTH SAID AT
THE TIME THAT YOU REALLY WEREN'T
INTERESTED IN TALKING ABOUT WHO
DID THIS, BUT HAVING PUT A YEAR
BEHIND YOU NOW, ARE YOU MORE
INTERESTED?
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN THE TRIAL?
>> NO, I JUST THINK THE JUSTICE
SYSTEM WILL DO WHAT IT'S GOING
TO DO AND WE HAVE NO CONTROL, SO
THAT'S MY ANSWER.
I DON'T THINK OF IT.
I JUST THINK THIS DID SOMETHING
BUT WE COULDN'T CONTROL IT THAT
DAY.
>> Reporter: IS THERE
ANYTHING -- SOUNDS KIND OF
STRANGE -- BUT POSITIVE THAT'S
COME OUT OF THIS FOR YOU GUYS?
>> YEAH, A TON.
I MYSELF HAVE GOT A DIFFERENT
OUTLOOK FOR PEOPLE.
NOT THAT YOU DON'T REALIZE IT,
BUT PEOPLE ARE GOOD.
I MEAN, FROM GIVING ME JUST WHAT
THEY THOUGHT OF IT AND HOW GOOD
FRIENDS WE ARE, WE'VE GOTTEN A
LOT OF OPPORTUNITIES TO MEET A
LOT OF NEW PEOPLE, SPECIAL
PEOPLE.
FOR ONE BAD THING THAT HAPPENED
TO US -- OF COURSE, IT WAS A
VERY BAD THING -- BUT WE GOT A
LOT OF GOOD OUT OF IT
>> Woodruff: THE BROTHERS ARE
MOVING FORWARD IN OTHER WAYS
TOO: THEY'RE ABOUT TO OPEN A
ROOFING BUSINESS TOGETHER.
EACH ALSO RECEIVED $1.4 MILLION
FROM THE ONE FUND, THE CHARITY
THAT RAISED $70 MILLION FOR
VICTIMS OF THE BOMBINGS.
AN ARTIFICIAL LEG COSTS AROUND
$150,000 AND THEY WILL NEED
REPLACEMENTS IN THE YEARS TO
COME
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE OTHER MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
UKRAINIAN TROOPS AND PRO-RUSSIAN
GUNMEN CLASHED AT AN AIRPORT IN
EASTERN UKRAINE AS THE
GOVERNMENT SAID IT HAD LAUNCHED
AN ANTI-TERRORIST CAMPAIGN.
AND THE WHITE SUPREMACIST WHO
ALLEGEDLY KILLED THREE PEOPLE AT
JEWISH COMMUNITY SITES OUTSIDE
KANSAS CITY WAS OFFICIALLY
CHARGED WITH MURDER.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, IT'S APRIL
15TH AND YOU'VE ALREADY FILED
YOUR INCOME TAXES BY NOW, RIGHT?
SO YOU KNOW HOW MUCH YOU PAID
UNCLE SAM THIS PAST YEAR.
NOW USE OUR TAX CALCULATOR TO
FIND OUT HOW MUCH OF YOUR SALARY
YOU WOULD HAVE TAKEN HOME IN
OTHER COUNTRIES.
COMPARE THE U.S. INCOME TAX RATE
TO THOSE OF OTHER ECONOMICALLY
DEVELOPED NATIONS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBSNED
NIGHT.